\documentclass[tc, manuscript]{copernicus}

\usepackage{booktabs}
\usepackage{multirow}
\usepackage{siunitx} 

\begin{document}

\title{Fountain scheduling strategies to improve water use efficiency of artificial
ice reservoirs (Icestupas)}

\def\Authors{Suryanarayanan Balasubramanian\,$^{1,2}$, Martin Hoelzle\,$^{1}$Roger Waser\,$^{3}$, $Martin Von
Burg^{3}\,$}

\def\Address{$^{1}$University of Fribourg, Department of Geosciences, Fribourg, Switzerland $^{2}$University of
Applied Sciences and Arts, Luzern, Switzerland} \def\corrAuthor{Suryanarayanan Balasubramanian}
\Author[1,2]{Suryanarayanan}{Balasubramanian}
\Author[1]{Martin}{Hoelzle}
\Author[3]{Roger}{Waser}
\Author[3]{Martin}{Von Burg}
\affil[1]{University of Fribourg, Department of Geosciences, Fribourg, Switzerland}
\affil[2]{Himalayan Institute of Alternatives, Ladakh, India}
\affil[3]{University of Applied Sciences and Arts, Luzern, Switzerland}

\correspondence{suryanarayanan.balasubramanian@unifr.ch}

\runningtitle{Scheduling AIR fountains}

\runningauthor{S. Balasubramanian}

\firstpage{1}

\maketitle

\begin{abstract}

  Artificial Ice Reservoirs (AIRs), often also called - Ice Stupa - are a climate change adaptation strategy
  developed in the Indian Himalayas (Ladakh). With this technology, otherwise unused stream water is stored in
  large ice towers in winter. The surplus melt water that is available in spring is used for satisfying
  irrigation water demands. Recent studies have shown that during construction of traditional AIRs over 75 \% of
  the water sprayed was lost. Therefore, fountain wastewater production has to be reduced for improving water
  use efficiency.  During the winter of 2021-22, a traditional and an automated AIR were built in Guttannen,
  Canton of Berne, Switzerland with the main aim of comparing and quantifying the benefits of fountain
  scheduling. Fountain scheduling was realized through an automation system computing recommended discharge
  rates using real-time weather input and location metadata. The scheduled fountain produced similar volumes
  while consuming 87 \% less water than the unscheduled fountain. Simulations converting unscheduled fountains
  to scheduled fountains improved the water use efficiency of several traditional AIRs more than two fold.
  Overall, these results show that the automated construction strategy can increase the water use efficiency of
  AIRs without compromising their meltwater production.

\end{abstract}

\introduction

Cryosphere-fed irrigation networks in arid mountain regions are completely dependent on timely availability of
meltwater from glaciers, snow and permafrost \citep{farhanHydrologicalRegimesConjunction2015}. With the
accelerated decline of glaciers due to climate change \citep{nusserLocalKnowledgeGlobal2016}, these regions are
experiencing water scarcity particularly during the spring season \citep{norphelSnowWaterHarvesting2015}. This
seasonal water scarcity makes it essential to provide supplementary irrigation in order to sustain agricultural
output and take advantage of the complete growing season \citep{nusserLocalKnowledgeGlobal2016,
vincentEnergyClimateChange2009}.

To cope with this recurrent water scarcity, villagers in the region of Ladakh have developed four types of
artificial ice reservoirs (AIRs): basins, cascades, diversions and a form known locally as ice stupas. All these
types of ice reservoirs capture water in the autumn and winter, allowing it to freeze, and hold it until spring,
when it melts and flows down to fields \citep{vinceGlacierMan2009, clouseLadakhArtificialGlaciers2017,
nusserSociohydrologyArtificialGlaciers2019, ipccChapterHighMountain2019}. In this way, they retain a previously
unused portion of the annual flow and facilitate its use to supplement the decreased flow in the following
spring. 

Over the past decade, several ice stupas have been built to supplement irrigation water supply of mountain
villages in India \citep{wangchukIceStupaCompetition2020, palmerStoringFrozenWater2022,
aggarwalAdaptationClimateChange2021}, Kyrgyzstan \citep{bbcnewsBrightArtificialGlacier2020} and Chile
\citep{reutersConservationistsChileAim2021}. These AIRs are traditionally constructed by diverting springs or
glacial streams into fountain spray systems via embankments and pipelines. 

The success of any AIR construction strategy can be determined using the maximum ice volume and the water use
efficiency attained during its survival duration. Previous work
\citep{balasubramanianInfluenceMeteorologicalConditions2022} shows that for any given location improvement of
both these evaluation metrics is possible through modifications of the fountain characteristics. In particular,
it recommends to reduce the fountain discharge rate to improve the poor water use efficiency of traditional
AIRs. However, this recommendation is challenging to implement in practice. For example, in the case of the
Indian AIR, the model estimates that water use efficiency can be doubled by just reducing the fountain discharge
rate by half \citep{balasubramanianInfluenceMeteorologicalConditions2022}. However, in practice, reduction of
discharge rate would compromise the maximum ice volume obtained due to reduction in the fountain spray radius
and could increase the maintenance cost due to higher risk of fountain freezing events.  

An optimum construction strategy, therefore, should first prevent the occurence of these two events before
reducing discharge rates. Spray radius can be maintained if the fountain aperture diameter is lowered with the
discharge rate. Fountain freezing events can be prevented if the pipeline water temperature is maintained above
0 $\degree C$ and the discharge is not lowered below a minimum threshold. Typical solutions to maintain pipeline
water temperature given pipeline dimensions are to bury or drain the pipeline. Burying the pipeline at a
sufficient depth can reduce the influence of atmospheric conditions on the pipeline water temperature. Even
though this method is ideal, it can quickly get expensive depending on the length of the pipeline and the frost
depth. Therefore, such an effort is warranted only in the case of a permanent construction location.
Comparatively, draining the pipeline when the fountain is not active is a much cheaper strategy. Fountain
discharge rate is also lowered every time the fountain height increases. Therefore, a critical height needs to
be set beyond which fountain height should not be increased. Both these strategies can be combined with fountain
scheduling methods to reduce watering volumes without affecting the water use efficiency and maximum ice volume
obtained. 

Knowledge of surface freezing rates is important to schedule fountains. Surface freezing rates can be calculated
by means of the full energy balance model developed in
\cite{balasubramanianInfluenceMeteorologicalConditions2022}. This model can be forced with either historical
weather data or real-time weather data to produce recommended discharge rates.

Locations limited by their water supply like in Ladakh, India would prioritize water use efficiency whereas
those limited by the favourable weather windows like in Guttannen, Switzerland  would prioritize for maximum ice
volume. Therefore, recommended discharge rate also needs to be sensitive to constraints on the water supply or
weather of the construction site. Accordingly, we use two types of model parameter forcings that overestimate
and underestimate the surface freezing rates to attain higher ice volumes and higher water use efficiency
respectively. 

However, manually adjusting the fountain discharge rate is not practical due to two reasons. Firstly, this would
involve constant adjustments of discharge rates in response to the significant diurnal and seasonal variations
of the freezing rates. Secondly, frequent pipeline water drainage is required to halt fountain operation.
Therefore, operation of scheduled fountains via automation systems is preferred to reduce the maintenance cost
long-term.

The present study builds upon previous work \citep{balasubramanianInfluenceMeteorologicalConditions2022,
oerlemansBriefCommunicationGrowth2021}, in order to quantify the influence of different fountain scheduling
strategies on the mass and energy balance of AIRs with identical meteorological conditions. The main interest in
using model results is to simulate fountain schedules relative to constraints in favourable weather windows and
water availability.  The specific objectives of this paper include the mass and energy balance comparison of
fountain scheduling strategies, presentation of the automation system, and examples of its application to the
computation of fountain scheduling strategies.

\section{Study sites and data}

In this study, we use some datasets presented in our previous work
\citep{balasubramanianInfluenceMeteorologicalConditions2022} along with new datasets. These old datasets record
the meteorological conditions and fountain characteristics of AIRs built in Gangles, India (IN21) and Guttannen,
Switzerland (CH21) during the winter of 2020-21. Details about these old datsets can be found in our previous
work. In this section, we focus on describing the AIR datasets collected in Guttannen, Switzerland during the
winter of 2021-22 (CH22).

The Guttannen site (46.66 $\degree$N, 8.29 $\degree$E) is situated in the Berne region, Switzerland and has an
altitude of 1047 $m$ a.s.l. In the winter (Oct-Apr), mean daily minimum and maximum air temperatures vary
between -13 and 15 $\degree C$. Clear skies are rare, averaging around 7 days during winter. Daily winter
precipitation can sometimes be as high as 100 $mm$. These values are based on 30 years of hourly historical
weather data measurements \citep{meteoblueClimateGuttannen2021}. Two AIRs were constructed by the Guttannen
Bewegt Association, the University of Fribourg and the Lucerne University of Applied Sciences and Arts during
the winters of 2021-22 using a traditional and an automated construction strategy.

\begin{figure}[t]
\includegraphics[width=8.3cm]{Figures/2AIRs.jpg}
\caption{Automated and traditional AIRs at Guttannen on February 6, 2022. Picture credits: Daniel Bürki}
\label{fig:2AIR} 
\end{figure}

The automated and the traditional AIRs were constructed adjacent to each other as shown in Fig. \ref{fig:2AIR}.
This ensured both AIRs shared the same water source and identical weather conditions. In addition, a webcam
guaranteed a continuous survey of the automated AIR.   

In the traditional strategy, the fountain was operated manually whereas in the automated strategy a programmed
automation system controlled the fountain discharge rate during the whole study period using real time weather
input and several control parameters, which could be modified via a user interface. Henceforth, we refer to the
fountain used in the traditional and automated construction strategy as unscheduled and scheduled fountains
respectively.

In the traditional construction strategy, tree branches were laid covering the fountain pipe to initiate and
speed up the ice cone formation process. In the automated strategy, only the fountain pipe was placed before the
water spray started. The construction of both the AIRs began on 8th December on a snow bed of 13 cm thickness
and ended on 12th April. These two dates are denoted as start and expiry dates henceforth.

\subsection{Meteorological data}

Air temperature, relative humidity, wind speed, pressure, long-wave, short-wave direct and diffuse radiation are
required to calculate the surface energy balance of an AIR.  The weather data source was an automatic weather
station (AWS) located around 20 m away as shown in Fig. \ref{fig:2AIR}. Less than 0.4 \% of the data was found
to be missing and the data gaps were filled by linear interpolation. Hourly ground temperature measurements were
also recoreded by the AWS to approximate the fountain's water temperature. 

\begin{figure*}[t]
\includegraphics[width=12cm]{Figures/disvstemp.png}
\caption{Temperature and discharge measurements at the Guttannen construction site}
\label{fig:aws} 
\end{figure*}


\subsection{Fountain observations}

We define the fountain used through its five attributes, namely: spray radius ($r$), discharge rate ($Q$),
height ($h$), pressure loss ($P$), and water temperature ($T_F$). Spray radius denotes the observed ice radius
formed from the fountain water droplets. Discharge rate represents the discharge rate of the water in the
fountain pipeline. Height denotes the height of the fountain pipeline installed. Pressure loss denotes the loss
of water head caused due to the fountain nozzle . Fountain water temperature is the temperature of the water
droplets produced by the fountain.

Fig. \ref{fig:aws} shows how the automation system scheduled the discharge rate based on variations in
temperature. The automation system caused these variations through its control valve which varied between 0 to
100 \% depending on the recommended discharge rate. Throughout the study period, the control valve was opened
completely (100 \%) only once corresponding to the time when the temperature attained its minimum of -13 \degree
C on 20th December. After this event, the control valve was never opened beyond 34 \%.  

The automation system also measured the water temperature of the scheduled fountain. Since both the fountains
use the same water source, this dataset was also used to estimate the water temperature of the unscheduled
fountain.

The unscheduled fountain was manually operated to spray all the available discharge until a fountain freezing
event interrupted the discharge on 17th February. Unfortunately, no discharge rate measurements were recorded
for the unscheduled fountain. Therefore, this dataset was estimated from the discharge rate measurements and
characteristics of the scheduled fountain.

The height was also increased in steps of 1 meter for both the fountains. This caused variations in the
corresponding discharge rate. For the scheduled fountain, the construction began with a height of 3 m with an
increase to 4 $m$ on 23rd December. This fountain height increase reduced its maximum discharge from
13 $l/min$ to 11 $l/min$. For the unscheduled fountain, the construction began with a height of 3.7 $m$ and then
this was increased two times on 23rd December and 12th February.  

The spray radius was estimated for both the fountains from several drone flights. Drone flights which observed
either an increase in AIR circumference or volume were selected to determine the mean spray radius used for
determining the fountain's spray radius.

\subsection{Drone surveys}

Several photogrammetric surveys were conducted on the traditional and the automated AIRs. The details of these
surveys and the methodology used to produce the corresponding outputs are explained in
\cite{balasubramanianInfluenceMeteorologicalConditions2022}. The digital elevation models (DEMs) generated from
the obtained imagery were analysed to document the spray radius, the surface area and the volume of the ice
structures. Even though the number of drone flights were identical for both AIRs, fewer successful volume
observations were possible for the automated AIR as shown in Table \ref{tab:uav}. This was because the DEMs
generated for the automated AIR could not be used to georeference the snow covered surface of the automated
AIR's. Since the traditional AIR was steeper, its surface revealed ice patches that could be georeferenced. The
number of drone surveys conducted for the traditional and the automated AIRs were 8 and 6, respectively. 

\begin{table}
	\centering
	\caption{ Summary of the drone surveys}
	\label{tab:uav}
	\begin{tabular}{@{}|llllll|@{}}
		\toprule
		\textbf{}              & \textbf{No.} & \textbf{Date} & \textbf{Volume} & \textbf{Radius} & \textbf{Surface Area} \\ \midrule
		\multicolumn{1}{|l|}{\multirow{8}{*}{\rotatebox[origin=c]{90}{Traditional}}}
		                       & 1            & Dec 23, 2021  & 17 $m^{3}$     & 2.9 $m$
		                       & 47 $m^{2}$                                                                      \\
		\multicolumn{1}{|l|}{} & 2            & Jan 3, 2022  & 22 $m^{3}$     & 3.4 $m$
		                       & 61 $m^{2}$                                                                      \\
		\multicolumn{1}{|l|}{} & 3            & Jan 22, 2022   & 35 $m^{3}$     & 4 $m$
		                       & 79 $m^{2}$                                                                      \\
		\multicolumn{1}{|l|}{} & 4            & Feb 6, 2022  & 44 $m^{3}$     & 4.2 $m$
		                       & 86 $m^{2}$                                                                      \\
		\multicolumn{1}{|l|}{} & 5            & Feb 20, 2022  & 43 $m^{3}$     & 4.3 $m$
		                       & 86 $m^{2}$                                                                      \\
		\multicolumn{1}{|l|}{} & 6            & Mar 19, 2022  & 33 $m^{3}$     & 4.4 $m$
		                       & 84 $m^{2}$                                                                      \\
		\multicolumn{1}{|l|}{} & 7            & Mar 26, 2022  & 24 $m^{3}$     & 4.3 $m$
		                       & 74 $m^{2}$                                                                      \\
		\multicolumn{1}{|l|}{} & 8            & Apr 12, 2022  & 11 $m^{3}$     & 3.5 $m$
		                       & 50 $m^{2}$                                                                      
		\\\midrule
		\multicolumn{1}{|l|}{\multirow{6}{*}{\rotatebox[origin=c]{90}{Automated}}}
		                       & 1            & Dec 23, 2021  & 35 $m^{3}$      & 4.3 $m$
		                       & 73 $m^{2}$                                                                       \\
		\multicolumn{1}{|l|}{} & 2            & Jan 3, 2022   & 32 $m^{3}$      & 4.4 $m$
		                       & 81 $m^{2}$                                                                       \\
		\multicolumn{1}{|l|}{} & 3            & Feb 20, 2022   & 60 $m^{3}$      & 5.3 $m$
		                       & 105 $m^{2}$                                                                       \\
		\multicolumn{1}{|l|}{} & 4            & Mar 19, 2022   & 28 $m^{3}$      & 3.7 $m$
		                       & 57 $m^{2}$                                                                       \\
		\multicolumn{1}{|l|}{} & 5            & Mar 26, 2022   & 19 $m^{3}$      & 3.7 $m$
		                       & 53 $m^{2}$                                                                       \\
		\multicolumn{1}{|l|}{} & 6            & Apr 12, 2022   & 7 $m^{3}$      & 2.5 $m$
		                       & 53 $m^{2}$                                                                       \\
		\bottomrule
	\end{tabular}

\end{table}

\section{Methods}

\subsection{Automation system}


\subsubsection{Automation hardware}

The automation hardware consists of an AWS, flowmeter, control valve, drain valves, air valves, fountain,
pipeline and a logger. The logger feeds the AWS data to the automation software and informs the recommended
discharge rate to the flowmeter. The flowmeter adjusts the control valve to match the recommendation. However,
the recommended discharge rate is ignored if any of the termination criterion are valid. The termination
criterion prevent water loss and fountain freezing events. In case a termination criteria is valid, the drain
and air valves allow the removal of water from the pipeline and entry of air in the pipeline respectively.

\subsubsection{Automation software}

Any construction location can either be constrained by the available water supply or the duration of favourable
weather windows for fountain operation. If the respective location has limited water supply then the fountain
scheduling strategy should be optimised for high water-use efficiency (HWE). But if the location is limited by
the time period when the fountain can function then the scheduling strategy should be optimised for high ice
volumes (HIV).

Accordingly, we introduce two kinds of model parameter forcing corresponding to the HIV and HWE objective for
the following three model parameters: (a) slope , (b) albedo and (c) cloudiness. The slope parameter increases
the shortwave radiation and sensible heat impact. The albedo parameter decreases the shortwave radiation impact.
The cloudiness parameter increases both the shortwave and the longwave radiation impact. Therefore, increase of
slope and cloudiness parameter increases melting energy and increase of albedo parameter increases freezing
energy. The HIV and HWE assumptions overestimate and underestimate the freezing rate of the AIR respectively.
Correspondingly, we associate the upper and lower bounds of these parameters to the HIV and HWE assumptions as
shown in Table \ref{tab:assumptions}.

\begin{table}[]
\centering
\caption{Assumptions for the parametrisation introduced to simplify the model.}
\label{tab:assumptions}
\begin{tabular}{@{}lllll@{}}
\toprule
\textbf{Estimation of} & \textbf{Symbol} & \textbf{HIV Assumptions} & \textbf{HWE Assumptions} & \\ \midrule
\multicolumn{1}{|l}{Slope}        & $s_{cone}$ & $ 1 $ & $0$ & \multicolumn{1}{l|}{} \\ \midrule
\multicolumn{1}{|l}{Albedo} & $\alpha$ & $\alpha_{snow}$ & $\alpha_{ice}$ & \multicolumn{1}{l|}{} \\\midrule 
\multicolumn{1}{|l}{Cloudiness}  & $cld$ & $0$ & $1$ & \multicolumn{1}{l|}{} \\ \bottomrule
\end{tabular}
\end{table}

We apply the assumptions described in Table \ref{tab:assumptions} on the one-dimensional description of energy
fluxes as used in \cite{balasubramanianInfluenceMeteorologicalConditions2022} to obtain the rate of change of
AIR ice mass as follows: 

\begin{equation}
  \frac{\Delta M_{ice}}{\Delta t}  =  (\frac{q_{SW} + q_{LW} + q_{S} + q_{F} + q_{R} + q_{G} - q_{T}}{L_F} + \frac{q_{L}}{L_V} ) \cdot A_{cone}
	\label{eqn:auto}
\end{equation}

Upward and downward fluxes relative to the ice surface are positive and negative, respectively. The first term
represents the mass change rate due to freezing of the fountain water and melting of the ice. $q_{SW}$ is the
net short-wave radiation; $q_{LW}$ is the net long-wave radiation; $q_{L}$ and $q_{S}$ are the turbulent latent
and sensible heat fluxes; $q_{F}$ is the fountain discharge heat flux; $q_{R}$ is the rain water heat
flux; $q_{G}$ is the ground heat flux; $q_{T}$ is the temperature heat flux and $A_{cone}$ is the area of the
AIR surface. The derivation of these individual terms using the assumptions are discussed in the Appendix
\ref{sec:SEB}.

Equation \ref{eqn:auto} is implemented in the automation system through a user interface that enables input of
the spray radius, altitude, latitude and longitude of the construction location. Once switched on, the
automation system regulates the fountain discharge rate based on the recommended discharge rate. The recommended
discharge rate is equal to the ice mass change rate. However, certain termination criteria override the
discharge rate recommendation and drain the pipeline to prevent water loss or fountain freezing events, namely: 

\begin{itemize}

\item High water loss is assumed if wind speed is greater than critical wind speed.

\item High risk of fountain freezing event is assumed if temperature is lower than fountain freezing temperature.

\item High risk of fountain freezing event is assumed if $\frac{\Delta M_{ice}}{\Delta t}$ is lower than minimum fountain discharge rate. 

\item Fountain freezing events are assumed if discharge rate is zero for at least 20 seconds and the pipeline is drained as a
  consequence.

\item Pipeline leakage is assumed if discharge rate is greater than maximum fountain discharge rate.

\end{itemize}

\subsection{Model updates}

The model was made more sensitive to fountain discharge rate feedback in order to compare the volume evolution
of the automated and the traditional AIRs. This was done by introducing better parametrisation of fountain water
temperature and surface albedo. 

In the previous version of the model \citep{balasubramanianInfluenceMeteorologicalConditions2022}, the fountain
water temperature ($T_F$) was estimated as a constant parameter. However, in reality, this is a poor
approximation. This is because the fountain water temperature and source water temperature differ due to the
cooling of the water during its transit from the source to the  AIR surface. Therefore, we instead use measured
hourly ground temperature measurements to approximate water temperature for both the AIRs.

In the previous version of the model \citep{balasubramanianInfluenceMeteorologicalConditions2022}, fountain
discharge events were reset from surface albedo to ice albedo. However, this assumption limits the accuracy of
the model, especially, for the automated AIR where several fountain discharge events of short durations occur.
Therefore, we assumed that discharge events instead increase the albedo decay rate ($\tau$) by a scaling
factor equal to $\frac{\alpha_{snow}}{\alpha_{ice}}$.

Additionally, both the AIRs experienced many precipitation events. Therefore, it was no longer accurate to
assume AIR density ($\rho_{AIR}$) to be equal to ice density. We instead parameterised AIR density $\rho_{AIR}$ as follows:

\begin{equation}
  \rho_{AIR} = \frac{M_{F} + M_{dep} + M_{ppt}}{(M_{F} + M_{dep})/\rho_{ice} + M_{ppt}/\rho_{snow}}
\end{equation}

where $M_F$ is the cumulative mass of the fountain discharge; $M_{ppt}$ is the cumulative precipitation;
$M_{dep}$ is the cumulative accumulation through water vapour deposition; $\rho_{ice}$ is the ice density (917
$kg\,m^{-3}$) and $\rho_{snow}$ is the density of wet snow (300 $kg\,m^{-3}$) taken from
\cite{cuffeyPhysicsGlaciers2010} .

Rain events were not considered in the previous version of the model but they occur in our experiment. The
influence of rain events on the albedo and the energy balance was assumed to be similar to that of discharge
events. However, the water temperature of a rain event was assumed to be equal to the air temperature.
Accordingly, the heat flux generated due to a rain event was equal to:

\begin{equation}
  q_{R} = \frac{\Delta M_{ppt} \cdot c_{water} \cdot T_{a}}{\Delta t \cdot A_{cone}}
\end{equation}

\subsection{Calibration and Validation}

The model parameters were calibrated to the median values of the ranges presented in
\cite{balasubramanianInfluenceMeteorologicalConditions2022}.

We performed the validation of the model on the traditional and automated AIRs by evaluating the root mean
squared error (RMSE) between volume estimates and measurements. 

The performance of the HIV and HWE versions of the physical model was assessed by comparing correlation of its
discharge rate estimates with the validated freezing rate of calibrated model.

\subsection{Fountain characteristics}

The fountain's height ($h$), aperture diameter ($dia$) and pressure loss ($P$) were related to its discharge
rate ($Q$) through the Bernoulli equation :

\begin{equation}
  \label{eqn:bernoulli}
  P_{i} + \rho_{water} \cdot g \cdot h_{i} + 1/2 \cdot \rho_{water} \cdot v_{i}^2 = P_{f} + \rho_{water} \cdot g
  \cdot h_{f} + 1/2 \cdot \rho_{water} \cdot v_{f}^2
\end{equation}

where $\rho_{water}$ is the density of water and $v$ is the velocity of the fountain water droplets. The
subscripts $i$ and $f$ refer to the initial and final states of the system. $v$ can be determined from the
discharge rate $Q$ through the mass conservation equation as 

\begin{equation}
	\label{eqn:dis}
 v = 4 \cdot Q/(\pi \cdot dia^2)
\end{equation}

Combining the Eqns. \ref{eqn:bernoulli} and \ref{eqn:dis}, we get the final discharge $Q_f$ after a height change
from $h_i$ to $h_f$ to be:

\begin{equation}
  \label{eqn:discharge}
  Q_f = \sqrt{Q_i^2 + 2 \cdot g \cdot (h_i-h_f) \cdot (\pi \cdot dia^2/4)^2}
\end{equation}

Traditional AIR construction often involves regular increase in fountain height in steps of 1 $m$. These events
can trigger fountain freezing events by reducing the pipeline discharge to zero.  Here we define the critical
discharge rate ($Q_{crit}$) as the discharge rate beyond which fountain height increase triggers a fountain
freezing event. We refer to this height as the fountain freezing height henceforth.

Assuming that the water droplets have diameter equal to the fountain apertutre diameter and follow projectile
motion starting from a fountain height $h$ with a launch angle $\theta = 45 \degree$, we get the following equation for the spray radius $r$:

\begin{equation}
  \label{eqn:radf}
  r = \frac{v \cdot(v + \sqrt{v^2 + 4hg)}}{2g}
\end{equation}

\section{Results}

\subsection{Estimation of fountain characteristics}

Some events that occured during the study period enable us to estimate the fountain characteristics of the
scheduled fountain. Particularly, influence of a fountain height increase event on the maximum discharge rate
was used to determine the fountain aperture diameter and the critical discharge rate  . The change in discharge
rate observed upon removal of the fountain nozzle was used to determine the fountain pressure loss.

The maximum discharge rate of the scheduled fountain was reduced from $Q_i$ =  13 $l/min$ to $Q_f$ = 11 $l/min$
when the fountain height was raised from  $h_i$ = 3 $m$ to $h_f$ = 4 $m$. Inputting the corresponding values in
Eqn. \ref{eqn:bernoulli}, we get the estimated fountain aperture diameter ($dia$) to be around 5 $mm$. 

The critical discharge required to increase the fountain height by one meter of the scheduled fountain with an
aperture diameter of 5 $mm$ was estimated from Eqn. \ref{eqn:bernoulli} as 5 $l/min$.

When the fountain nozzle was removed, the maximum discharge rate of the fountain was observed to increase from
$Q_{i}$ = 11 $l/min$ to $Q_{f}$ = 27 $l/min$. Using the fountain aperture diameter $d_i = 5 mm$, the pipeline
diameter $d_f = 19 mm$, $P_{f} = 0$ and $h_{i} = h_{f}$ in Eqn. \ref{eqn:bernoulli} we estimate the pressure
loss occurring due to the fountain nozzle to be equivalent to 4.3 meters of water head.

\subsection{Unscheduled discharge rate estimation}

The pressure loss of unscheduled fountain can be determined by assuming a linear relationship of pressure loss
with aperture diameter. We use two observations to determine this linear relationship, namely, that the pressure
loss of the fountain was zero with a diameter of 19 $mm$ (fountain removal event) and that the scheduled
fountain had a pressure loss of 4.3 $m$ with an aperture diameter 5 $mm$. We estimate that for a constant height
the pressure decreases by 18 $mm$ for every 1 $mm$ increase in aperture diameter (see Fig. \ref{fig:fountains}
(a)).

The unscheduled fountain had a fountain freezing event at height 5.7 $m$. We assume that its discharge rate was
close to zero during this event.  The aperture diameter with the fountain freezing height closest to 5.7 $m$ is
7 $mm$ according to Eqn. \ref{eqn:bernoulli} as shown in Fig. \ref{fig:fountains} (b) . The corresponding
pressure loss of a fountain with 7 $mm$ diameter is 3.7 $m$ as shown in Fig. \ref{fig:fountains} (a).

Fig. \ref{fig:fountains} (c) shows the unscheduled discharge rate estimated for the study period. The temporal
variation in the discharge rate is caused due to the the two height increase events on 23rd Dec and 12th
February that increased the height from 3.7 to 5.7 m respectively.

\begin{figure*}[t]
\includegraphics[width=12cm]{Figures/fountains.png}

\caption{ (a) Pressure loss as a linear function of aperture diameter for a constant fountain height and
  discharge rate. The corresponding values for the scheduled and unscheduled fountains are highlighted as red
  and blue dots respectively. (b) Discharge as a function of height for the scheduled (red curve) and the
  unscheduled (blue curve) fountain for a constant aperture diameter and pressure loss. (c) Discharge measured
  for the scheduled fountain (red curve) and estimated for the unscheduled fountain (blue curve) during the
study period.}

\label{fig:fountains}
\end{figure*}

\subsection{Scheduled discharge rate simulations}

We found that the simplified energy balance model estimated the freezing rate of the unscheduled fountain with a
correlation around 0.6 and a RMSE less than 0.6 $l/min$ and 1.6  $l/min$ for the HWE and ICV,
respectively. The HIV scheduled fountain overestimated the freezing rate 44 \% of the construction duration
whereas the HWE scheduled fountain underestimated the freezing rate 67 \% of the construction duration.

\subsection{Model validation}

The volume estimation for the automated and traditional AIR had an RMSE of 13 $m^3$ and 5 $m^3$ with the drone
volume observations, respectively. This RMSE error is within 20 \% and 11 \% of the maximum volume of the
automated and the traditional AIR respectively. The estimated and measured AIR volumes are shown in Fig.
\ref{fig:validation}.  

\begin{figure*}[t] \includegraphics[width=12cm] {Figures/validation.png} \caption{Volume validation of the
scheduled and unscheduled fountain construction strategies.} \label{fig:validation} \end{figure*}

\subsection{Comparison of AIR construction strategies}

\begin{figure*}[t]
\includegraphics[width=12cm]{Figures/dis_processes.png}
\caption{(a) Surface albedo  and (b) fountain discharge heat flux showed significant variations between the two
  AIRS due to the differences in their discharge rate.}
\label{fig:dis_processes}
\end{figure*}

Table \ref{tab:mb} shows how the different fountain scheduling strategies influence the mass and energy balance
of the respective AIR. The difference between the fountain discharge input and fountain wastewater output of the
unscheduled and scheduled fountains was around an order of magnitude. This was expected since the unscheduled
fountain's discharge duration was 2 times higher than the scheduled fountain.

To understand how the different scheduling strategies influence the rest of the mass balance output, we discuss
the influence of fountain discharge on the surface mass and energy balance. During fountain spray, the AIR
surface (a) albedo dampens to ice albedo and (b) absorbs the heat energy of the fountain water droplets. These
two processes are the cause of the difference in the mass and energy balance distribution shown in Table
\ref{tab:mb}. The temporal variation of the magnitude of these processes are shown in Fig.
\ref{fig:dis_processes}. 

The overall impact of the radiation fluxes (long-wave and short-wave) and the turbulent fluxes (sensible and
latent) on the freezing and melting energies, their respective energy turnover is summed by taking into account
the sign of their mean energy flux during the study period (see Table \ref{tab:mb}). A negative sign indicates
that the corresponding energy flux increased or decreased freezing or melting energy, respectively. The
radiation fluxes contributed -6 \% and 5 \% to the freezing and melting energies for the traditional and
automated AIR, respectively.  Similarly, the turbulent fluxes for both the AIRs contribute -9 \% to the freezing
energies. The fountain discharge, rainwater and ground heat flux contribute 11 \% and 3 \% to the melting
energies for the traditional and automated AIR, respectively. 

There is a considerable difference in the contribution of the shortwave radiation due to the effect of process
(a). Even though the traditional AIR was active for a much longer duration, the frequent snowfall events
counteracted the albedo feedback of its fountain discharge. However, the albedo of the automated AIR was
significantly impacted by late fountain spray events particularly in the month of March as shown in Fig.
\ref{fig:dis_processes}.

Similarly, the fountain discharge heat flux for the traditional AIR was enhanced due to process (b). The higher
discharge quantity of the unscheduled fountains and its longer duration were responsible for the 10 fold
increase in its fountain discharge heat flux.


\begin{table}
	\centering
	\caption{Summary of the mass balance, energy balance, fountain and AIR characteristics estimated at the end of the respective
  simulation duration for the automated and the traditional AIRs}
	\label{tab:mb}
	\begin{tabular}{@{}|llllll|@{}}
		\toprule
		\textbf{}              & \textbf{Name}                   & \textbf{Symbol} & \textbf{Traditional} & \textbf{Automated} &
		\textbf{Units}                                                                                                       \\ \midrule
		\multicolumn{1}{|l|}{\multirow{3}{*}{\rotatebox[origin=c]{90}{Input}}}
		                       & Fountain discharge              & $M_F$           & \num{8.2e5}   & \num{1.4e5}     & $kg$  \\
		\multicolumn{1}{|l|}{} & Snowfall                        & $M_{ppt}$       & \num{1.1e4}   & \num{1.5e4}   & $kg$  \\
		\multicolumn{1}{|l|}{} & Deposition                      & $M_{dep}$       & \num{9.4e2}   & \num{1.2e3}     & $kg$  \\ \midrule
		\multicolumn{1}{|l|}{\multirow{4}{*}{\rotatebox[origin=c]{90}{Output}}}
		                       & Meltwater                       & $M_{water}$     & \num{2.9e4} & \num{4.2e4}   & $kg$  \\
		\multicolumn{1}{|l|}{} & Ice                             & $M_{ice}$       & \num{1.3e4} & \num{1.3e4}    & $kg$  \\
		\multicolumn{1}{|l|}{} & Sublimation                     & $M_{sub}$       & \num{2.6e3} & \num{3.0e3}     & $kg$  \\
		\multicolumn{1}{|l|}{} & Fountain wastewater             & $M_{waste}$     & \num{8.0e5} & \num{1.1e5}     & $kg$  \\ \midrule
		\multicolumn{1}{|l|}{\multirow{6}{*}{\rotatebox[origin=c]{90}{Energy Balance}}}

                           & Shortwave radiation             &  $q_{SW}$       & $29$  & $39$ & \% \\
		\multicolumn{1}{|l|}{} & Longwave radiation              &  $q_{LW}$       & $35$  & $34$ & \% \\
		\multicolumn{1}{|l|}{} & Sensible heat                   &  $q_{S}$        & $8$   & $8$ & \% \\
		\multicolumn{1}{|l|}{} & Latent heat                     &  $q_{L}$        & $17$  & $17$ & \% \\
		\multicolumn{1}{|l|}{} & Fountain discharge heat         &  $q_{F}$        & $10$  & $1$     & \% \\
		\multicolumn{1}{|l|}{} & Rain heat                       &  $q_{R}$        & $0$  & $0$     & \% \\
		\multicolumn{1}{|l|}{} & Ground heat                     &  $q_{G}$        & $1$   & $2$     & \% \\\midrule
		\multicolumn{1}{|l|}{\multirow{5}{*}{\rotatebox[origin=c]{90}{Fountain}}}

                           & Spray Radius                    &  $r$            & 4.8           & 4.1           & $m$ \\
		\multicolumn{1}{|l|}{} & Aperture Diameter               &  $dia$          & 5             & 7             & $mm$ \\
		\multicolumn{1}{|l|}{} & Pressure Loss                   &  $P$            & 4.3           & 3.7           & $m$ \\
		\multicolumn{1}{|l|}{} & Critical discharge rate         &  $Q_{crit}$     & 5             & 7.2           & $l/min$ \\
		\multicolumn{1}{|l|}{} & Minimum discharge rate          &  $Q_{min}$      & 2           & N.A.          & $l/min$ \\\midrule
		\multicolumn{1}{|l|}{\multirow{2}{*}{\rotatebox[origin=c]{90}{AIR}}}

		                       & Maximum AIR Volume              &                 & 47            & 63            & $m^{3}$ \\
		\multicolumn{1}{|l|}{} & Water Use Efficiency            &                 & 4             & 31            & \% \\\midrule
	\end{tabular}
\end{table}


\section{Discussion}

\subsection{Model validation}

The model fails in estimating the expiry date of both AIRs due to underestimation of their melting rates. This
could be a consequence of our conical shape assumptions. In reality, AIR shape deviates from a cone especially
during the ablation period when the south face of the AIR melts much faster than the north face. Another cause
for the model error could be the deterioration of the albedo that is accelerated due to accumulation of
impurities on the surface as the AIR nears its expiry date .

\subsection{Operation of the automation system}

Incorrect setup of the automation software parameters led to deviations between the discharge rate recommended
by the automation system and the HIV model. This led to overestimation of the recommended freezing rate before
21st December. Beyond this date, the automation system never opened its control valve beyond 34 \% and was
successful in recommending appropriate discharge rates as shown in Fig. \ref{fig:simvsreal}. The automation
software also approximated the global solar radiation impact based on diurnal variation in February. This caused
the recommended discharge rate to be overestimated especially in the month of April.

\begin{figure*}[t]
\includegraphics[width=12cm]{Figures/simvsreal.png}

\caption{ The discharge rate measured by the automation system (red line) and the modelled discharge rate of the HIV version
  of the simplified model (blue line) are compared. The dashed grey line represents the minimum discharge rate
that does not trigger fountain freezing events. }

\label{fig:simvsreal}
\end{figure*}

\subsection{Benefits of scheduling fountains}

\begin{figure*}[t]
\includegraphics[width=12cm]{Figures/wue.png}

\caption{The maximum volumes and water-use efficiency estimated for AIRs constructed in different locations
(represented by colours) with different fountain scheduling strategies (represented by symbols). Experimental
values are highlighted by black circles and simulated values are highlighted by grey circles.  }

\label{fig:wue}
\end{figure*}

We evaluate the benefits of the automated construction strategies by comparing them with the traditional
construction strategies using the water-use efficiency and maximum volume metrics. The HIV and HWE versions
of the simplified energy balance model were used to schedule the fountains of the simulated AIRs. These three
kinds of fountain scheduling strategies will be referred to as unscheduled, HIV and HWE fountain henceforth. 

The difference in water-use efficiency and maximum volume between unscheduled and scheduled fountains in the two
locations across two winters are presented in Fig. \ref{fig:wue}. Four experimental values (highlighted by black
circles) are shown together with five simulated values (highlighted by grey circles) .  The experimental values
were taken from the IN21 and CH21 AIRs studied in \citet{balasubramanianInfluenceMeteorologicalConditions2022}
and the CH22 AIR presented in this paper. 

The maximum volume of IN21 is much higher than at the CH21 and CH22 AIRs due to the meteorological differences
between the two locations. Compared to the unscheduled fountains of each location, the maximum volume of 
scheduled fountains increases and decreases depending on whether the HIV or HWE fountain is used. 

The water-use efficiency of all the unscheduled fountains are below 20 \%. In general, the water-use efficiency
increases more than two fold when the HIV or HWE fountain is used in both the locations.  

There is also considerable difference between the outputs of HWE and HIV fountains for each AIR. For CH21 AIR,
HWE fountain does not yield any ice formation whereas HIV fountain succeeds in increasing the water-use
efficiency three fold. For CH22 AIR, both experimental and simulated values of HIV fountains yield an increase
in water-use efficiency from 4 \% to 31 \%. However, the HWE fountain was successful in increasing the water-use
efficiency up to 60 \%. 

For the Swiss location, scheduled fountains yield better water-use efficiency but do not alter the maximum
volume obtained significantly. For the Indian location, the two kinds of fountains yield significantly different
results when compared to the unscheduled fountain. The HIV fountain was able to achieve a 1.5 fold increase in
the maximum volume and a 2 fold increase in the water-use efficiency compared to the unscheduled fountain mainly
because it suffered no fountain freezing events. Even though the HWE fountain achieved water-use efficiency
higher than the HIV fountain, its maximum volume was even lower than the unscheduled fountain.

\subsection{Challenges of scheduling fountains}

Fountain freezing events limit the minimum discharge rate possible in scheduled fountains.  We assume the
minimum discharge rate that prevents fountain freezing events is 2 $l/min$. The model simulations revealed that
the nonzero median scheduled fountain discharge rate at the IN21 and CH21 AIRs were 13 $l/min$ and 2 $l/min$,
respectively.

Fountain height increase events also trigger fountain freezing events. This is because the higher the fountain
the lower the gravitational pressure that drives the discharge rate. This was precisely why the unscheduled
fountain was interrupted by a fountain freezing event. This fountain freezing event was triggered almost
immediately after the fountain height was increased. 

To schedule fountains, one needs to estimate their spray radius accurately. This is because the recommended
discharge rate is proportional to the square of the spray radius used.  Manual measurements of the fountain spray revealed a
maximum spray radius of just 3 m but drone measurements reveal a fountain spray radius of 4.8 m for the
scheduled fountain. This discrepancy could be caused by both wind drift of water droplets and refreezing events
across the boundary of the AIR. 

Fig. \ref{fig:radf} (a) compares the temporal variation of the estimated spray radius with the measured spray
radius using Eqn. \ref{eqn:radf}. For the unscheduled fountain, estimated spray radius only assumes two values
throughout the study period. All the measured spray radius values lie between these two spray radius states of
the fountain. For the scheduled fountain, estimated spray radius shows high variations. The difference of the
estimated and the measured maximum spray radius is caused mainly due to overestimation of the spray radius, for
example, during mid-december when spray radius reached a maximum of 12 $m$. The overestimation of the spray
radius is due to underestimation of the pressure loss since both these parameters increase as discharge rate
increases. Therefore, if the spray radius estimation during December is ignored, the maximum spray radius of the
remaining duration corresponds well with the observed spray radius.

\begin{figure*}[t]
\includegraphics[width=12cm]{Figures/radf.png}

\caption{(a) Spray radius of the scheduled and the unscheduled fountain estimated from its discharge rate measurements using the
projectile motion of water droplets. The dots represent the observed spray radius using the drone measurements.
(b) The estimated heights of traditional (blue) and automated (red) AIRs.
}

\label{fig:radf}
\end{figure*}

\subsection{Controlling AIR shape through fountain characteristics}

Fig. \ref{fig:radf} (b) shows the estimated height of the traditional and automated AIR. The heights of both the
AIRs are underestimated since the model assumes a constant fountain spray radius for the whole study period.
This spray radius corresponds to the maximum discharge rate of the fountain used as shown in Fig. \ref{fig:radf}
(a). Therefore, the traditional AIR had a higher radius and height primarily because of its higher discharge
rate compared to the automated AIR.

This was expected since the fountain's spray radius and freezing height are both proportional to the discharge
rate according to Eqn. \ref{eqn:discharge}. This was also one reason why Swiss AIRs are much smaller than Indian
AIRs. However, in practice, indefinite increase in discharge does not produce indefinite increase in spray
radius since droplet accumulation around the fountain follows a normal distribution. Moreover, the fountain
pressure loss is expected to increase exponentially as discharge increases, further decreasing the expected
spray radius. Therefore, only limited control of height and radius of the AIR is possible using this strategy.

\section{Conclusions and recommendations}

In this paper, an automated AIR construction strategy is presented and compared with a traditional strategy
using data collected in Guttannen, Switzerland.

The main purpose of this study was to quantify the influence of different fountain designs and scheduling
strategies on the water use efficiency and volumes of AIRs exposed to identical weather conditions. We found
that excessive fountain discharge rate not just increased the fountain wastewater production but also enhanced
the melting rate of AIRs, mainly due to its surface albedo and foutain heat flux feedbacks. Furthermore, the
freezing rate of the scheduled fountain was also enhanced by its lower aperture diameter, which contributed to
its higher spray radius. Therefore, the automated AIR was able to reduce its water consumption by 87 \% and
increase its maximum volume by 34\% compared to the traditional AIR.

A simplified energy balance model compatible with the limited data availability of a new location was used to
produce two types of discharge rates favouring higher volumes and better water use efficiencies, respectively.
Nevertheless, this model was able to capture more than 44 \% of the freezing rate variations produced by the
full energy balance model. Simulations comparing scheduled and unscheduled fountains show that up to a two fold
increase in water use efficiency is possible with the use of scheduled fountains without compromising on
meltwater production.

The automation system allows the easy handling of fountain scheduling implementation in any new location. The
possibility for changing the location and fountain metadata directly in the user interface allows tailoring the
fountain discharge rate according to the location's water supply and weather conditions. Our results suggest
that the automation system was successful in operating fountains within favourable weather windows while
preventing the occurrence of any fountain freezing events. Although, the automation system increases
installation costs, we believe that a use of such systems is warranted when considering the reduced maintenance
costs on a longer term.

We recommend three modifications to the traditional construction strategy to prevent fountain freezing events,
obtain higher volumes and lower water losses. Firstly, avoid fountain operation below the minimum fountain
discharge rate. Our study used a value of 2 $l/min$. However, this is likely to vary depending on the weather
conditions and the characteristics of the fountain and the pipeline used. It is recommended to set this value
based on observed fountain droplet trajectories in the construction site. Secondly, restrict maximum fountain
height based on the fountain characteristics. Our study showed that an increase in the fountain aperture
diameter by 2 $mm$ can reduce the fountain freezing height from 9 to 5 $m$ . Once the fountain freezing height
is achieved, another AIR can be created to continue the construction process. Such a construction strategy would
yield higher ice volumes with lower risk of fountain freezing events. Alternatively, fountain with reduced
aperture diameter could be used if higher AIRs are desired. However, this comes at the cost of a higher pressure
loss. Thirdly, the median modelled discharge rate could be used to set the mean discharge rate of unscheduled
fountains. This will already yield a higher water use efficiency without the need of sophisticated automation
systems.

Fountain design is an important area where improvement is necessary. In the case of the CH22 experiment, the
fountain pressure loss was as high as 4 $m$ of water head. Future research must be devoted to improving fountain
design through their aperture diameter parameter in order to minimize their pressure losses while increasing
their spray radius. 

\appendix

\section{Simplified energy balance model}\label{sec:SEB}

The model complexity was reduced through assumptions that optimise for the HIV or the HWE objectives. We define the freezing rate and melting rate as the positive and negative mass change
rate, respectively. Assumptions are chosen, based on whether they overestimate/underestimate the freezing rate.
HIV objective requires freezing rate to be overestimated whereas HWE objective requires freezing rate to
be underestimated. We describe these two kinds of assumptions applied on each of the energy balance components
below: 

\subsection{Surface Area $A_{cone}$ assumptions}

Determination of the surface area during the accumulation period is achieved by assuming a constant ice cone
radius equal to the fountain spray radius. The surface area scales the freezing rate of the AIR. Hence, for the
HIV objective, we assume the maximum possible slope of 1 for the ice cone or in other words $h_{cone} = r_{F}$.
Therefore, area is estimated as:  

\begin{equation} A_{cone} =\sqrt{2} \cdot \pi \cdot r_{F}^2  \end{equation}

Similarly, for the HWE objective, the area of the conical AIR is approximated to the area of its circular
base. Therefore, area is estimated as:

\begin{equation} A_{cone} =\pi \cdot r_{F}^2  \end{equation}

\subsection{Net shortwave radiation \texorpdfstring{$q_{SW}$}{Lg} assumptions}
\label{sec:SW}

The net shortwave radiation $q_{SW}$ is computed as follows:

\begin{equation} 
q_{SW} = (1- \alpha) \cdot ( SW_{direct} \cdot f_{cone} + SW_{diffuse})
\label{eqn:SW} 
\end{equation}

where $\alpha$ is the albedo value ; $SW_{direct}$ is the direct shortwave radiation; $SW_{diffuse}$ is the
diffuse shortwave radiation and $f_{cone}$ is the solar area fraction.

The data requirement was reduced by estimating the global shortwave radiation and pressure directly using the
location's coordinates and altitude through the solar radiation model described in
\citet{holmgrenPvlibPythonPython2018}. The algorithm used to estimate the clear-sky global radiation is
described in \citet{ineichenBroadbandSimplifiedVersion2008}.  

The diffuse and direct shortwave radiation is determined using the estimated global solar radiation as follows:

\begin{equation}
\begin{split}
  SW_{diffuse} &= cld \cdot SW_{global}\\
  SW_{direct} &= (1-cld) \cdot SW_{global}
\end{split}
\end{equation}

where $cld$ is the cloudiness factor. $cld$ is assumed to be 1 and 0 for the HWE and HIV objective
respectively.

We ignore the variations in the albedo and assume it to be equal to snow albedo and ice albedo for the HIV and
HWE objective, respectively.

The solar area fraction $f_{cone}$ of the ice structure exposed to the direct shortwave radiation depends on the
shape considered. It is computed as

\begin{equation}
		f_{cone} =\frac{(0.5 \cdot r_{cone} \cdot h_{cone}) \cdot cos \theta_{sun} +(\pi \cdot
			{(r_{cone})}^2/2) \cdot sin \theta_{sun} }{\pi \cdot r_{cone} \cdot ({(r_{cone})}^2+{(h_{cone})}^2)^{1/2}}\\
\end{equation}

For the HIV objective, since we assume the slope of the cone to be 1, $f_{cone}$ is determined as follows:

\begin{equation}
		f_{cone} =\frac{ cos \theta_{sun} + \pi \cdot sin \theta_{sun} }{2\sqrt{2} \cdot \pi }
\end{equation}

Similarly, for the HWE objective, since we assume the slope of the cone to be negligible, we get:

\begin{equation}
		f_{cone} =\frac{ sin \theta_{sun} }{2 }
\end{equation}

\subsection{Net Longwave radiation \texorpdfstring{$q_{LW}$}{Lg} assumptions} 

We assume $T_{ice} = 0 \degree C$ in order to determine outgoing longwave radiation. Since it is challenging to
constrain the minimum ice temperature, we maintain this assumption for both our objectives. However, in order to
estimate atmospheric emissivity, we again assume $cld$ to be 1 and 0 for the HWE and HIV objective respectively.

\subsection{Turbulent fluxes assumptions} \label{sec:Qs}

Turbulent fluxes estimation depend on the slope of the cone through the $\mu_{cone}$ parameter. As suggested 
by \citet{oerlemansBriefCommunicationGrowth2021}, we estimated this parameter as follows:

\begin{equation}
  \mu_{cone} =1 + s_{cone}/2
\end{equation}

Hence, the $\mu_{cone}$ parameter takes values of 1.5 and 1 for the HIV and HWE objective respectively.  Since
turbulent fluxes impact both the freezing and the melting rates, this assumption may not favor the corresponding
objectives for certain sites.

\noappendix 

\bibliographystyle{copernicus}
\bibliography{zot_refs.bib}

\end{document}
